                       1--\
                           A        D---4
                       2--/ \      /
                             B----C
                            /      \
                           3        E

   Servers: A, B, C, D, E         Clients: 1, 2, 3, 4

                    [ Fig. 1. Sample small IRC network ]

RFCs:
https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2810 (Internet Relay Chat: Architecture)

Important Concepts:
   Operators: Can disconnect and reconnect servers. 
   Remove any user by forced disconnection
   
IRC Concepts:
  One-to-One Communication: servers send message in one direction along the spanning tree
  in the shortest path between the points.
  One-To-Many: conversation only sent to servers supporting users on the given channel
  
   
Client:
  Anything conneting to the server that is not another server.
  User and Service Clients

Architecture:
  IRC network is a group of servers connected to eachother
  IRC servers form a spanning tree which each server acts as a central
  node for the rest of the network it sees.
  IRC protocl does not support two clients directly communicating. 
  eveything is relayed by the servers
   
Important considerations:
   IRC messages are always lines of characters terminated with a CR-LF
   Messages must not exceed 512 characters

IRC Commands/Messages:
   Each IRC message may consist of up to three main parts: the prefix
   (OPTIONAL), the command, and the command parameters (maximum of
   fifteen (15)).  The prefix, command, and all parameters are separated
   by one ASCII space character (0x20) each.
   
   The presence of a prefix is indicated with a single leading ASCII
   colon character (':', 0x3b), which MUST be the first character of the
   message itself.  There MUST be NO gap (whitespace) between the colon
   and the prefix.  The prefix is used by servers to indicate the true
   origin of the message.  If the prefix is missing from the message, it
   is assumed to have originated from the connection from which it was
   received from.  Clients SHOULD NOT use a prefix when sending a
   message; if they use one, the only valid prefix is the registered
   nickname associated with the client.
   
Channels:
   Because of IRC's Scandinavian origin, the characters {}|^ are
   considered to be the lower case equivalents of the characters []\~,
   respectively. This is a critical issue when determining the
   equivalence of two nicknames or channel names.